README.md, before:

# CuteStation

A 2D platformer action game built with modern cross-platform technologies.

## Documentation

- [Game Design Document](docs/GAME_DESIGN.md) - Core loop, combat, levels, and player experience.
- [Technical Design Document](docs/TECHNICAL_DESIGN.md) - Engine architecture, systems, and asset pipeline.

## Assets

- [Asset Guidelines](docs/ASSETS.md)
- [Knight Assets](ProjectContent/Characters/knight/README.md)
- [White Palace Visuals](ProjectContent/Levels/whitePalace/README.md)

## Tech Stack

- **Tauri V2** - Cross-platform desktop and mobile application framework
- **Svelte 5** - Modern reactive UI framework
- **TypeScript** - Type-safe JavaScript
- **Rust** - Backend runtime for Tauri

## Supported Platforms

| Platform | Status | CI Build | Output |
|----------|--------|----------|--------|
| Windows | Supported | TBD | `.exe` / `.msi` |
| Android | Supported | TBD | `.apk` / `.aab` |
| iOS | Supported | N/A | `.ipa` (requires macOS) |

> **Note:** iOS builds require Apple Developer certificates and signing setup. Use `tauri ios build` locally on macOS instead of CI.

## Prerequisites

### All Platforms

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 18, 20, or 22+
- [Rust](https://rustup.rs/) (latest stable)
- npm (comes with Node.js)

### Windows

- [Visual Studio Build Tools 2019+](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/)
  - Select "Desktop development with C++"

### Android

- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio) or Android SDK
- Android NDK (install via SDK Manager)
- JDK 17+ (recommend [Eclipse Temurin](https://adoptium.net/))

Set environment variables:
```bash
ANDROID_HOME=<path-to-android-sdk>
NDK_HOME=<path-to-android-ndk>
JAVA_HOME=<path-to-jdk>
```

Add Rust Android targets:
```bash
rustup target add aarch64-linux-android armv7-linux-androideabi i686-linux-androideabi x86_64-linux-android
```

### iOS (macOS only)

- macOS with [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) (latest version)
- Apple Developer Account (for distribution)

Add Rust iOS targets:
```bash
rustup target add aarch64-apple-ios x86_64-apple-ios aarch64-apple-ios-sim
```

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YuutaTsubasa/CuteStation.git
cd CuteStation

# Install dependencies
npm install
```

## Development

```bash
# Desktop development (hot-reload)
npm run tauri dev

# Android development (requires device/emulator)
npm run tauri android dev

# iOS development (macOS only, requires simulator)
npm run tauri ios dev
```

## Conventions

Run the convention checker to validate repository naming rules and asset placement.

```bash
# Fail on error-level issues
npm run convention:check

# Always exit 0 (report only)
npm run convention:report
```

Reports are written to `reports/convention-report.json` and `reports/convention-report.md`.
Details live in `docs/conventions.md`.

## Current MVP Progress

- Phase 1: PixiJS integration + page system skeleton (Splash/MainMenu/GamePlay) done.
- Phase 2: GamePlay Pixi lifecycle + menu navigation done.
- Phase 3: Player placeholder (keyboard move/jump) + escape back to menu done.
- Phase 4: Basic platform collisions + horizontal camera follow done.
- Phase 5: Knight sprites + platform collisions/camera refinements done.
- Phase 6: JSON level data (solids/coins/goal) wired into gameplay done.
- Phase 7: Level Editor v0 (grid/snap/pan + export) done.
- Phase 8: Mobile virtual controls (joystick + jump) overlay done.
- Phase 9: Knight combat animations (attack, hit, dead, running attack) done.
- Phase 10: Level editor enemy placement + touch/gamepad editing done.

## Controls

- Keyboard: Arrow keys / A-D to move, Space to jump, J/K to attack, Escape to return to the menu.
- Touch: Left virtual joystick for horizontal movement, right jump and attack buttons.
- Gamepad: Left stick to move, A to jump (B also accepted), X to attack (Y also accepted).

## Rendering

- The game uses a 1920x1080 design resolution (16:9) and scales to fit the window.
- Letterbox space is filled with `ProjectContent/UI/gameBackground.webp`.
- Gameplay initializes the camera at the player spawn and reveals the world after player assets load.
- Splash uses a timed fade sequence, and the main menu uses a looping video background with a Press-to-Start gate.
- Gameplay HUD shows level title, HP bar, timer, and coin count.
- Bottom HUD bar shows controller and keyboard mappings.
- Page transitions use a global fade, and gameplay starts with a logo intro before controls unlock.
- Gameplay input is locked while the intro logo is visible.

## Audio

- Background music is managed by `AudioManager` (HTMLAudio) with per-page transitions.
- Grounded attacks spawn a short slash projectile; homing attacks are still air-only.

## Asset Pipeline

- `npm run build` copies `ProjectContent/` into `static/ProjectContent/` via `scripts/copyProjectContent.mjs`.

## Build

### Windows

```bash
npm run tauri build
```

Output:
- `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/msi/cutestation_*.msi`
- `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/nsis/cutestation_*-setup.exe`

### Android

```bash
# Build for all architectures
npm run tauri android build

# Build for ARM64 only (recommended)
npm run tauri android build -- --target aarch64
```

Output:
- `src-tauri/gen/android/app/build/outputs/apk/universal/release/*.apk`
- `src-tauri/gen/android/app/build/outputs/bundle/universalRelease/*.aab`

### iOS (macOS only)

> **Note:** iOS builds are not included in CI due to certificate requirements. Build locally on macOS.

```bash
npm run tauri ios build
```

Output:
- `src-tauri/gen/apple/build/arm64/*.app`
- `src-tauri/gen/apple/build/arm64/*.ipa` (if signed)

## Project Structure

```
CuteStation/
  src/                          # Svelte frontend source
  src/routes/                   # SvelteKit routes
  src-tauri/                    # Tauri Rust backend
  static/                       # Static assets
  ProjectContent/               # Game content (spritesheets, audio, levels)
  docs/                         # Design and technical docs
  package.json                  # Node.js dependencies
  svelte.config.js              # Svelte configuration
  vite.config.js                # Vite configuration
  tsconfig.json                 # TypeScript configuration
```

## IDE Setup

Recommended extensions for VS Code:
- [Svelte for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode)
- [Tauri](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tauri-apps.tauri-vscode)
- [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add homing trail silhouettes and coin sweep

README.md, after:

# CuteStation

A 2D platformer action game built with modern cross-platform technologies.

## Documentation

- [Game Design Document](docs/GAME_DESIGN.md) - Core loop, combat, levels, and player experience.
- [Technical Design Document](docs/TECHNICAL_DESIGN.md) - Engine architecture, systems, and asset pipeline.

## Assets

- [Asset Guidelines](docs/ASSETS.md)
- [Knight Assets](ProjectContent/Characters/knight/README.md)
- [White Palace Visuals](ProjectContent/Levels/whitePalace/README.md)

## Tech Stack

- **Tauri V2** - Cross-platform desktop and mobile application framework
- **Svelte 5** - Modern reactive UI framework
- **TypeScript** - Type-safe JavaScript
- **Rust** - Backend runtime for Tauri

## Supported Platforms

| Platform | Status | CI Build | Output |
|----------|--------|----------|--------|
| Windows | Supported | TBD | `.exe` / `.msi` |
| Android | Supported | TBD | `.apk` / `.aab` |
| iOS | Supported | N/A | `.ipa` (requires macOS) |

> **Note:** iOS builds require Apple Developer certificates and signing setup. Use `tauri ios build` locally on macOS instead of CI.

## Prerequisites

### All Platforms

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) 18, 20, or 22+
- [Rust](https://rustup.rs/) (latest stable)
- npm (comes with Node.js)

### Windows

- [Visual Studio Build Tools 2019+](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/visual-cpp-build-tools/)
  - Select "Desktop development with C++"

### Android

- [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio) or Android SDK
- Android NDK (install via SDK Manager)
- JDK 17+ (recommend [Eclipse Temurin](https://adoptium.net/))

Set environment variables:
```bash
ANDROID_HOME=<path-to-android-sdk>
NDK_HOME=<path-to-android-ndk>
JAVA_HOME=<path-to-jdk>
```

Add Rust Android targets:
```bash
rustup target add aarch64-linux-android armv7-linux-androideabi i686-linux-androideabi x86_64-linux-android
```

### iOS (macOS only)

- macOS with [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) (latest version)
- Apple Developer Account (for distribution)

Add Rust iOS targets:
```bash
rustup target add aarch64-apple-ios x86_64-apple-ios aarch64-apple-ios-sim
```

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YuutaTsubasa/CuteStation.git
cd CuteStation

# Install dependencies
npm install
```

## Development

```bash
# Desktop development (hot-reload)
npm run tauri dev

# Android development (requires device/emulator)
npm run tauri android dev

# iOS development (macOS only, requires simulator)
npm run tauri ios dev
```

## Conventions

Run the convention checker to validate repository naming rules and asset placement.

```bash
# Fail on error-level issues
npm run convention:check

# Always exit 0 (report only)
npm run convention:report
```

Reports are written to `reports/convention-report.json` and `reports/convention-report.md`.
Details live in `docs/conventions.md`.

## Current MVP Progress

- Phase 1: PixiJS integration + page system skeleton (Splash/MainMenu/GamePlay) done.
- Phase 2: GamePlay Pixi lifecycle + menu navigation done.
- Phase 3: Player placeholder (keyboard move/jump) + escape back to menu done.
- Phase 4: Basic platform collisions + horizontal camera follow done.
- Phase 5: Knight sprites + platform collisions/camera refinements done.
- Phase 6: JSON level data (solids/coins/goal) wired into gameplay done.
- Phase 7: Level Editor v0 (grid/snap/pan + export) done.
- Phase 8: Mobile virtual controls (joystick + jump) overlay done.
- Phase 9: Knight combat animations (attack, hit, dead, running attack) done.
- Phase 10: Level editor enemy placement + touch/gamepad editing done.

## Controls

- Keyboard: Arrow keys / A-D to move, Space to jump, J/K to attack, Escape to return to the menu.
- Touch: Left virtual joystick for horizontal movement, right jump and attack buttons.
- Gamepad: Left stick to move, A to jump (B also accepted), X to attack (Y also accepted).

## Rendering

- The game uses a 1920x1080 design resolution (16:9) and scales to fit the window.
- Letterbox space is filled with `ProjectContent/UI/gameBackground.webp`.
- Gameplay initializes the camera at the player spawn and reveals the world after player assets load.
- Splash uses a timed fade sequence, and the main menu uses a looping video background with a Press-to-Start gate.
- Gameplay HUD shows level title, HP bar, timer, and coin count.
- Bottom HUD bar shows controller and keyboard mappings.
- Page transitions use a global fade, and gameplay starts with a logo intro before controls unlock.
- Gameplay input is locked while the intro logo is visible.
- Homing attacks leave a blue silhouette trail that can collect overlapping coins.

## Audio

- Background music is managed by `AudioManager` (HTMLAudio) with per-page transitions.
- Grounded attacks spawn a short slash projectile; homing attacks are still air-only.

## Asset Pipeline

- `npm run build` copies `ProjectContent/` into `static/ProjectContent/` via `scripts/copyProjectContent.mjs`.

## Build

### Windows

```bash
npm run tauri build
```

Output:
- `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/msi/cutestation_*.msi`
- `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/nsis/cutestation_*-setup.exe`

### Android

```bash
# Build for all architectures
npm run tauri android build

# Build for ARM64 only (recommended)
npm run tauri android build -- --target aarch64
```

Output:
- `src-tauri/gen/android/app/build/outputs/apk/universal/release/*.apk`
- `src-tauri/gen/android/app/build/outputs/bundle/universalRelease/*.aab`

### iOS (macOS only)

> **Note:** iOS builds are not included in CI due to certificate requirements. Build locally on macOS.

```bash
npm run tauri ios build
```

Output:
- `src-tauri/gen/apple/build/arm64/*.app`
- `src-tauri/gen/apple/build/arm64/*.ipa` (if signed)

## Project Structure

```
CuteStation/
  src/                          # Svelte frontend source
  src/routes/                   # SvelteKit routes
  src-tauri/                    # Tauri Rust backend
  static/                       # Static assets
  ProjectContent/               # Game content (spritesheets, audio, levels)
  docs/                         # Design and technical docs
  package.json                  # Node.js dependencies
  svelte.config.js              # Svelte configuration
  vite.config.js                # Vite configuration
  tsconfig.json                 # TypeScript configuration
```

## IDE Setup

Recommended extensions for VS Code:
- [Svelte for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=svelte.svelte-vscode)
- [Tauri](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tauri-apps.tauri-vscode)
- [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)

## License

MIT
